Well after having a look at checkboxes, let's move on to well kind of their sibling, radio buttons. The
difference of course is that we may only select one radio button and a group of radio buttons,
so right now it's not working correctly.
So we want to ensure that we can only select one and then that we store the value of the selected radio
button in some property,
let's use vuejs to help us there.
Well we're storing the gender there, so let's go down to our data field here and simply add gender here
and I'll set it to male by default since well I am male, of course
choose your favorite gender,
nowadays we get a lot of options here.
So with the gender set here, we want to go to the radio buttons here and now the important thing
is how do we bind them? Again
I set them up in a bootstrap style wrapped by a label to have the styling they do have
but the v-model is of course also added to the input again,
so we always add it to the input here, not to the wrapping label, not to the wrapping div, to the input
and here, I want to bind to gender just like that.
Now I can copy this same code to my other radio button, doing this acheives a lot of things in the background,
first
vuejs now knows both radio buttons belong to the same group.
So if we save this, we can already see that I could only select one of the two
now because again, vuejs recognizes they're bound to the same model,
so they are a group, so only one of them is selectable,
that's the first important thing.
The second important thing is that vuejs automatically stores the value of the selected radio button,
the values
we set up here of course with the normal value attribute in our gender property
and I can show this by simply outputting gender here, like that. If I do it like this, we can see that
male is selected now
and now watch the area down there, it switches to female and back to male, female, back to male.
So this is how easy it is to bind radio buttons and of course, you could bind more than two,
the key thing here is to use the same model to which are binding and vuejs will handle the rest like
grouping, assigning the value correctly.
That is how we use radio buttons in a vuejs form and how we can use the property as we switch
between the buttons.